---
layout: post
title:      "Take me out to the ball game"
date:       2020-06-08 03:14:51 +0000
permalink:  take_me_out_to_the_ball_game
---


The idea for this project was born out of necessity.  Ok, that’s pretty dramatic and not really accurate.  The original idea for this project came from a conversation with a friend of mine, @holden.sportsballs.  @holden.sportsballs (instagram handle, not his actual name) is a huge fan of the athletic teams at the university in his hometown, The University of North Carolina.  He goes to basically every sporting event he possibly can and frequently ends up making personal connections with the student athletes, and even making some on-field appearances.  There is plenty of info readily available about every athlete across every team at the university online, but he found himself looking for a way to save a little bit more personalized info about each athlete.  Enter project number two!

Now knowing what I wanted to do, I wasn’t exactly sure where to start, and spent a bit of time creating my migrations and getting seed file in place. After that I found myself incredibly thankful for the conventions of RESTful routing.  I actually took the time to memorize the time to memorize the http verbs, routes, actions, and associated uses to get familiar with RESTful routing, but after building my first app in Sinatra, it’s truly second nature and doesn’t require memorization.  The flexibility of the RESTful conventions also came in handy throughout my project development.  While the conventions provided that structure I needed to have a nicely organized and complete application, I appreciate being able to define routes outside of the given structure to get that extra functionality.

Throughout this app I spent a lot of time building out the resources related to teams that our super-fan user is interested in.  That means athletes, sports, seasons, and teams, and I think I could easily add another layer above, which all teams would have a belongs_to association with.  The application as it stands now only represents all teams (..etc) present at UNC, but through Active Record associations ease of use and the RESTful style architecture of the application, expansion to a broader use-case is well within reach. So if @holdensportsballs decides to move to Palo Alto, California, for example,  he can do so knowing that if he becomes a fan of whatever the local university happens to be in that town, we have him covered.

Users, such as @hodlensportsballs, are able to create an account and add personalized notes about each of the athletes they interact with.  Only they will be able to read, create, update and delete these notes, as they are personal and won’t likely be of much help or interest to others.  In addition to that, users are able to edit some details of each athlete for public use.  As stated above, much of the info about each athlete is available on the university’s public site, but there is also other info on the web that would be helpful to sports fans.  While it is also publicly available, it’s just not pulled together in one place.  This web app will be a place that kind of info can live! 
